AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Commentary 
Short Answer Question 3 
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors. 
Overview 
Students were expected to answer three questions about the conquest and colonization of the 
Americas by Europeans and its impact on the Indigenous population and the global economy. For 
part (1), students were to identify one method Europeans used to expand their empires in the 
Americas. For part (b), students were to explain how European colonization affected Indigenous 
societies in the Americas. Finally, for part (c), students were to explain how the interactions between 
Europeans and Indigenous American societies contributed to the development of a global economy 
in the period from 1450 to 1750. 
The question tested content primarily from Unit 4 of the course framework, although students could 
also use knowledge from Unit 1 as background or contextual information in their responses 
regarding pre-Columbian states and societies in the Americas. The question primarily addressed 
content from Topics 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, and 4.7. 
Sample: 3A 
Score: 3 
The response earned the point for part (a) because it identifies the use of “forced labor systems” 
such as the “hacienda and mit’a systems” as a method to expand the empire’s territory. 
The response earned the point for part (b) because it explains how the transfer of diseases, such as 
“smallpox,” led to the deaths of many Native Americans as an effect on indigenous peoples. 
The response earned the point for part (c) because it explains how “Spanish conquerors, for instance, 
forced non-Europeans to mine silver... then sold the silver to China” as an interaction that contributed 
to the development of a global economy. 
Sample: 3B 
Score: 2 
The response earned the point for part (a) because it identifies “colonization” and the creation of 
“shelter and agriculture” as methods Europeans used to expand their empires in the Americas. 
The response earned the point for part (b) because it explains how colonialism led to Native 
Americans “losing their native lands,” in addition to the impact of disease, as effects on indigenous 
peoples in the Americas. 
The response did not earn the point for part (c) because “learning to work the soil” or “found 
indigenous weapons” does not clearly indicate an interaction between Europeans and non-
Europeans. Additionally, there is no clear explanation of how these impacted the development of a 
global economy. 
© 2024 College Board. 
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 