

===== PAGE 1 =====
2024
AP
®
 World History: 
Modern
Sample Student Responses 
and Scoring Commentary
 
Set 1
Inside: 
Long Essay Question 2
☑ ☑  Scoring Guidelines 
☑ ☑  Student Samples 
☑ ☑  Scoring Commentary 
© 2024 College Board. College Board, Advanced Placement, AP, AP Central, and the acorn logo are registered 
trademarks of College Board. Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
AP Central is the official online home for the AP Program: apcentral.collegeboard.org.

===== PAGE 2 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines  
© 2024 College Board 
Question 2: Long Essay Question, Exchange Networks and Social/Cultural Change 6 points 
 
 
 
General Scoring Notes 
• Except where otherwise noted, each point of these rubrics is earned independently; for example, a student could earn a point for evidence 
without earning a point for thesis/claim. 
• Accuracy: The components of these rubrics require that students demonstrate historically defensible content knowledge. Given the timed nature 
of the exam, essays may contain errors that do not detract from their overall quality, as long as the historical content used to advance the 
argument is accurate. 
• Clarity: Exam essays should be considered first drafts and thus may contain grammatical errors. Those errors will not be counted against a 
student unless they obscure the successful demonstration of the content knowledge, skills, and practices described below.  
In the period circa 1200–1750 networks of exchange led to the spread of religions, cultures, ideas, and traditions in many parts of Afro-Eurasia. 
Develop an argument that evaluates the extent to which exchange networks contributed to social or cultural change in Afro-Eurasia during this period.  

===== PAGE 3 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines 
© 2024 College Board 
Reporting 
Category Scoring Criteria 
Row A 
Thesis/Claim 
[0-1 points] 
0 points 
Does not meet the criteria for one point. 
1 point 
Responds to the prompt with a historically defensible thesis/claim that establishes a line of 
reasoni
ng. 
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes 
Responses that do not earn this point: 
• Are not historically defensible.
• Only restate or rephrase the prompt.
• Do not respond to the prompt.
• Do not establish a line of reasoning.
• Are overgeneralized.
Responses that earn this point: 
• Provide a historically defensible thesis or claim about the extent to which exchange 
networks
 contributed to social or cultural change in Afro-Eurasia in the period circa
1200–1750. The thesis or claim must either provide some indication of the reason for
making that claim OR establish categories of the argument.
Examples that do not earn this point: 
Provide a restatement of the prompt  
• “Networks of exchange led to the spread of religions, cultures,
ideas, and t
raditions in significant ways.” 
Provide a historically defensible claim, but do not establish a line 
of reas
oning 
• “European explorers went to Africa.” 
Provides a claim that is not historically defensible 
• “The spread of Islam was caused by the growth of empires and
not by tra
ders.” 
Does not focus on the topic of the prompt 
• “Explorers spread disease on ships along trade routes.” 
Examples that earn this point: 
Establish a line of reasoning that evaluates the topic of the prompt 
• “Within the Mongol khanates trade networks flourished under the Pax Mongolica, which
made trave
l easier and safer and thus led to the spread of cultural practices like
Buddhism and Islam.” 
Establish a line of reasoning that evaluates the topic of the prompt with analytic categories 
• “The expansion of European transoceanic trading empires, contributed to cultural change
in Afr
o-Eurasia mostly through the spread of Christianity, although in some instances it
also led to the emergence of new syncretic religious practices, or to non-Western 
societies closing off and rejecting Western cultural practices.” 
Establish a line of reasoning 
• “Islam expanded beyond the Middle East often because of the activities of merchants.” 
[Minim
ally acceptable thesis/claim]
Additional Notes: 
• The thesis or claim must consist of one or more sentences located in one place, either in the introduction or the conclusion [which may not be limited to the 
first or last p
aragraphs].
• The thesis or claim must identify a relevant development[s] in the period, although it is not required to encompass the entire period.

===== PAGE 4 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines  
© 2024 College Board 
Reporting 
Category 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Scoring Criteria 
Row B 
Contextualization 
[0-1 points] 
0 points 
Does not meet the criteria for one point. 
1 point 
Describes a broader historical context relevant to the prompt. 
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes 
Responses that do not earn this point: 
• Provide an overgeneralized statement about the time period 
ref
erenced in the prompt. 
• Provide context that is not relevant to the prompt. 
• Provide a passing phrase or reference.   
Responses that earn this point: 
• Accurately describe a context relevant to exchange networks and/or social or cultural 
cha
nge in Afro-Eurasia in the period circa 1200–1750. 
Examples that do not earn this point:  
Do not provide context relevant to the topic of the prompt 
• “Land-based empires expanded by centralizing their armies.” 
Provide a passing phrase or reference 
• “The spread of Buddhism impacted Afro-Eurasia.” 
Examples of relevant context that earn this point include the following, if appropriate 
el
aboration is provided: 
• Silk Roads trade networks 
• Indian Ocean trade networks 
• Trans-Saharan trade networks 
• European trading i n the Indian Ocean 
• T he Mongol khanates  
• Expansion of Islam in Asia and Africa 
• Portuguese trading-post empire in Asia 
• Emergence of socially and culturally diverse land-based empires 
• The Renaissance 
• Protestant and Catholic Reformations 
• Ming exploration and reconnaissance in the Indian Ocean 
Example of acceptable contextualization:  
• “For centuries, the Silk Roads had connected China with Central Asia, the Middle East, 
and ev
en Europe.” 
• “The spread of Chinese culture led to the adoption of Confucianism in parts of Southeast 
As
ia.” [Minimally acceptable contextualization] 
 
Additional Notes: 
• The response must describe broader historical events, developments, or processes that occur before, during, or continue after the time frame of the question 
tha
t are relevant to the topic of the prompt.  
• To earn this point, the context provided must be more than a phrase or reference. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines  
© 2024 College Board 
Reporting 
Category Scoring Criteria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Row C 
Evidence 
[0-2 points] 
0 points 
Does not meet the criteria for one 
po
int. 
1 point 
Provides specific examples of at least two pieces of evidence 
re
levant to the topic of the prompt. 
2 points 
Supports an argument in response to the prompt using 
a
t least two pieces of specific and relevant evidence. 
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes 
Responses that do not earn points: 
• Identify a single piece of evidence. 
• Provide evidence that is not 
re
levant to the topic of the prompt.  
• Provide evidence that is outside the 
t
ime period or region specified in 
the prompt. 
• Repeat information that is specified 
i
n the prompt.  
Responses that earn 1 point: 
• Identify at least two specific historical examples relevant 
to
 exchange networks and social or cultural change in 
Afro- Eurasia in the period circa 1200–1750.  
Responses that earn 2 points:  
• Use at least two specific historical examples to 
s
upport an argument regarding the extent to which 
exchange networks contributed to social or cultural 
change in Afro-Eurasia in the period circa 1200–
1750.  
Exampl es that do not earn points: 
Provide evidence that is outside the 
t
ime period or region 
• “As ideas of nationalism spread, 
ne
w nations were unified in places 
like Europe.” 
Repeat information that is specified in 
t
he prompt 
• “Religions, cultures, and traditions 
s
pread along trade networks in 
Afro-Eurasia.” 
Examples of evidence that are specific and relevant include 
t
he following [two examples required]: 
• Specific information about major merchant groups or 
m
erchant diasporas, such as, Jewish, Arab, Indian, 
Chinese, or Armenian merchants. 
• Information about specific trade-based cross-cultural 
enc
ounters in Afro Eurasia, for example Europeans in 
Japan or Persian or Omani merchants in East Africa. 
• European chartered and/or joint-stock companies active 
i
n Afro-Eurasia, such as the English East India Company 
[EIC], the Dutch East India Company [VOC], or the English 
Royal African Company 
• Pax Mongolica and travel and trade under the Mongol 
k
hanates 
• Expulsion of Jews from European cities and kingdoms and 
t
he resettlement of many Jews in the Ottoman Empire. 
• Major trading ports serving as entrepots, such as Melaka, 
C
alicut, Cairo, Venice 
• Spread of religion or other cultural practices by 
m
erchants, including Christianity, Islam, etc. 
• Luxury trade, such as trade in spices, silk, porcelain, etc. 
l
eading to closer cultural contacts between regions. 
• Exchange of ideas, such as the transmission of Greco-
R
oman scientific and philosophical knowledge from the 
Muslim world to Western Europe, or the spread of Indian 
mathematical knowledge to the Islamic world  
• Large-scale enslavement of Africans and the Atlantic slave 
tra
de 
Examples that successfully support an argument with 
e
vidence:  
• “Eastern inventions like the compass, the astrolabe, 
and 
gunpowder were adopted by Europeans, 
greatly improving maritime knowledge and 
shipbuilding, which ultimately led to the 
development of Portuguese trading posts in Africa 
and India, where missionaries began their efforts to 
spread Christianity.” [Uses evidence to support an 
argument about the spread of technology and trade 
contributing to cultural change] 
• “After being expelled from Spain and other 
E
uropean countries, Jewish populations settled in 
the Ottoman Empire, bringing their own cultural 
practices and contributing to the flourishing of both 
Jewish and Ottoman culture.” [Uses evidence to 
support an argument about the degree to which 
migration and trade contributed to cultural change] 

===== PAGE 6 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines  
© 2024 College Board 
 
  
Example of a statement that earns one point for evidence: 
• “Using their seafaring knowledge, Arab and Persian 
merchants settled in the cities of the Swahili Coast of East 
Africa.” 
Additional Notes: 
• Typically, statements credited as evidence will be more specific than statements credited as contextualization.  
• If a response has a multipart argument, then it can meet the threshold of two pieces of evidence by giving one example for one part of the argument and 
another example for a different part of the argument, but the total number of examples must still be at least two.  

===== PAGE 7 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines  
© 2024 College Board 
 
Reporting 
Category Scoring Criteria 
 
 
 
 
Row D 
Analysis and 
Reasoning 
[0-2 points] 
0 points 
Does not meet the criteria 
for one point. 
1 point 
Uses historical reasoning [e.g., comparison, causation, 
continuity, and change] to frame or structure an 
argument that addresses the prompt. 
2 points 
Demonstrates a complex understanding of the historical development 
that is the focus of the prompt through sophisticated argumentation 
and/or effective use of evidence. 
Decision Rules and Scoring Notes 
Responses that do not 
earn points: 
• May include evidence 
but offer no reasoning 
to connect the 
evidence to an 
argument. 
• May assert the use of 
historical reasoning but 
does not use it to 
frame or structure an 
argument. 
Responses that earn 1 point: 
• Must demonstrate the use of historical reasoning 
to frame or structure an argument about the 
extent to which exchange networks contributed to 
social or cultural change in Afro-Eurasia in the 
period circa 1200–1750. The reasoning might be 
uneven or imbalanced, or the evidence may be 
overly general or lacking specificity. 
Responses that earn 2 points:  
May demonstrate a complex understanding through sophisticated 
argumentation that is relevant to the prompt. This may be done in a variety 
of ways, such as: 
• Explaining multiple themes or perspectives to explore complexity or 
nuance; OR 
• Explaining multiple causes or effects, multiple similarities or 
differences, or multiple continuities or changes; OR  
• Explaining both cause and effect, both similarity and difference, or 
both continuity and change; OR  
• Explaining relevant and insightful connections within and across 
periods or geographical areas. These connections should clearly 
relate to an argument that responds to the prompt.  
May demonstrate a complex understanding through effective use of 
evidence relevant to an argument that addresses the prompt. This may be 
done in a variety of ways that might include: 
• Explaining how multiple pieces of specific and relevant evidence [at 
least four] support a nuanced or complex argument that responds to 
the prompt; OR 
• Using evidence effectively to demonstrate a sophisticated 
understanding of different perspectives relevant to the prompt.  
Examples that do not earn 
points: 
Provide evidence but offer 
no reasoning to connect 
the evidence to an 
argument  
• “Islam spread along 
trade routes in Afro-
Eurasia.” 
Using a historical reasoning process to frame or 
structure an argument could include: 
• Explaining how Muslim merchants brought crops 
from South and East Asia westward, leading to 
social changes related to the cultivation and 
consumption of these crops—for example the 
development of the plantation system related to 
the spread of sugar cultivation. 
• Explaining how the voyages of Zheng He 
significantly expanded the practice of tribute-trade 
between China and many Asian societies, 
contributing to cultural exchange. 
Demonstrating a complex understanding might include any of the 
following, if appropriate elaboration is provided: 
• Explaining the relationship between trade expansion and cultural or 
religious syncretism, wherein Chinese merchants establishing 
connections in other parts of Asia spread Confucian ideals and 
Buddhism, leading to new forms like Zen in Japan and Mahayana in 
Southeast Asia. [Explains relevant and insightful connections between 
regions] 
• Demonstrating how trade along the African coast enriched European 
slave traders and other merchants and also adhered to local African 
practices, while in the long run depleting African resources, leading to 

===== PAGE 8 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Guidelines 
© 2024 College Board 
Example of acceptable use of historical reasoning: 
• “The creation of joint stock companies allowed for
longe
r maritime voyages by armed vessels. The
financial backing and weaponry allowed such
companies to ultimately establish plantations that
used forced labor systems to produce desired goods
like coffee for European consumers, uprooting local
land and labor practices, and replacing them with
European ones.” [Indicates a cause of European 
traditions being imposed in Southeast Asia]
a power imbalance. [Explains nuance, considers both causes and 
eff
ects] 
• Explaining how multiple pieces of specific and relevant evidence
suppor
t a nuanced argument about the prompt. For example,
explaining how the spread of Islam transformed sub-Saharan African
societies and cultures by showing that Muslim rulers of the Mali
Empire sponsored Islamic learning in the libraries and schools of
Timbuktu, attended the Muslim pilgrimage in Mecca, adopted Muslim
dress and cultural practices regarding the separation of genders, and 
built monumental religious architecture combining Islamic and African 
features and styles. [Explains how at least four pieces of evidence
support a nuanced or complex argument]
Additional Notes: 
• To earn the first point for analysis and reasoning, the response must use historical reasoning to structure a response to the prompt, although the reasoning
migh
t be uneven or imbalanced, or the evidence may be overly general or lacking in specificity.
• This complex understanding must be part of the argument and may be demonstrated in any part of the response.
• While it is not necessary for this complex understanding to be woven throughout the response, it must be more than merely a phrase or reference.

===== PAGE 9 =====
1 of 3 2A

===== PAGE 10 =====
2 of 3 2A

===== PAGE 11 =====
3 of 3 2A

===== PAGE 12 =====
1 of 2 2B

===== PAGE 13 =====
2 of 2 2B

===== PAGE 14 =====
1 of 1 2C

===== PAGE 15 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Commentary 
© 2024 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
Long Essay Question 2 
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors. 
Overview 
Students were asked to develop an argument that evaluates the extent to which networks of 
exchange contributed to social or cultural change in Afro-Eurasia between 1200–1750. The question 
primarily addressed content from Units 2 and 4 of the course framework, while also providing 
students with opportunities to bring up content knowledge from Units 1 and 4 to earn the 
contextualization and evidence points. 
The question primarily addressed content from Topics 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 3.4, 4.4, and 4.5, with 
additional contextualization and evidence opportunities available from other topics from Units 1, 2, 3, 
and 4 
Sample: 2A 
Thesis Score: 1  
Contextualization Score: 1  
Evidence Score: 2  
Analysis and Reasoning Score: 2  
Total Score: 6  
A. Thesis/Claim (0–1 points): 1 
The response earned 1 point for thesis/claim. The response makes a historically defensible claim in 
the first paragraph stating, “Because exchange networks such as the Indian Ocean and Silk Road 
created cultural diffusion, facilitated the spread of religions such as Buddhism and Islam, and spread 
government ideals through trade such as the civil service exam, exchange networks contributed to 
social and cultural change in Afro-Eurasia to a high degree.”  
B. Contextualization (0–1 points): 1 
The response earned 1 point for contextualization. In the first paragraph, the response discusses 
multiple trade routes and states that dominated trade in the period 1200–1750.  
C. Evidence (0–2 points): 2 
The response earned 1 point for evidence. The response provides multiple pieces of accurate 
evidence in the second, third, and fourth paragraphs relevant to exchange networks and/or society or 
culture in Afro-Eurasia (“Indian traders traveling through Srivijay to China” / “Mansa Musas 
conversion to Islam” / Mansa Musa “completed his hajj to mecca” / “Sufi mystics would often travel 
along trade routes” / “Chinas power and wealth from the trade of silk, it gained many tributary states 
such as Vietnam and Japan.” / The Russian “Zhars court was expected to cut their hair.”)   
  

===== PAGE 16 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Commentary 
© 2024 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
Long Essay Question 2 (continued) 
The response earned 1 point for evidence for supporting an argument. The response provides more 
than enough pieces of evidence to support the argument in the second paragraph, stating that the 
“Silk road and Indian Oean trade for goods and commodities spread religion and created culture to a 
high degree” and included one piece of evidence by stating, “In South East Asia by the straight of 
Malacca, a choke point for trade, Srivijiya became Buddhist.” The response supports the argument 
that Mansa Musa’s conversion to Islam was due to being “located on the transharan dessert” and 
that “arab or turkic muslims would pass through to trade with African states.” “The Silk Road and 
Indian trade for goods and commodities spread religion and created cultural change” by stating the 
evidence that “Sufi mystics would often travel along trade routes spreading Islam to civilizations 
they passed.” In the third paragraph, the response supports the argument that “Cultural and social 
diffusion from networks of exchange can be seen in the spread of Western and Chinese ideals 
throughout Eurasia” with evidence that Vietnam and Japan “adopted its many Confucian values and 
practices” as well as “Vietnam adopted its own version of the civil service exam.” The response 
supports the argument that Western cultural diffusion came from networks of exchange with 
evidence that Russia imitated “European styles of dress, governance, and language.”  
D. Analysis and Reasoning (0–2 points): 2 
The response earned 1 point for historical reasoning. The response contains more examples of 
historical reasoning than are necessary to earn the point. The response explained how the Trans-
Saharan Trade network “led to the conversion of Mansa Musa and later many of his citizens to 
Islam.” The response also discusses how Sufi mystics would spread Islam and create cultural 
change with diasporic communities of Islam outside of the Middle East. The response also discusses 
how Vietnam and Japan changed through adopting “Confucian values and practices” due to being a 
Chinese tributary state. Finally, the response discusses how trade networks led Russia to imitate 
European dress and language.  
The response earned 1 point for demonstrating complex understanding. The response effectively 
uses more than four pieces of specific and relevant evidence to support a complex argument that 
trade networks led to social and cultural changes and used multiple historical reasoning skills in 
support of an argument.  
Sample: 2B 
Thesis Score: 0  
Contextualization Score: 1  
Evidence Score: 2  
Analysis and Reasoning Score: 1  
Total Score: 4  
A. Thesis/Claim (0–1 points): 0 
The response did not earn the point for thesis/claim. The response does not offer a historically 
defensible claim; it only restates what is provided in the prompt claiming “Exchange networks 
heavily change any society it interacted with.”  
  

===== PAGE 17 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Commentary 
© 2024 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
Long Essay Question 2 (continued) 
B. Contextualization (0–1 points): 1 
The response earned 1 point for contextualization. In the second paragraph, the response states, 
“There were main exchange networks in the Indian Ocean trade, the Silk Road, the Transaharan, 
and the Incan Roads.” The response attempts to provide context in the first paragraph, but was too 
vague in stating only that “Before 1200, there were only nomadic tribes who weren’t connected” 
which is factually inaccurate.  
C. Evidence (0–2 points): 2 
The response earned 1 point for evidence in the second and third paragraphs. The response 
provides multiple pieces of accurate evidence relevant to exchange networks and/or society or 
culture in Afro-Eurasia (The Indian Ocean “helped with the spice trade and bringing in new maritime 
technology.”/“the Silk Road, which primarily traded luxury goods” / “The Triangular trade between 
Europe, Africa, and the Americas”).  
The response earned 1 point for evidence for supporting an argument. In the second paragraph, the 
response supports the argument that exchange networks like the Indian Ocean would affect “sea and 
land based empires” with one piece of evidence stating that “With the influence of spices and foods 
populations would increase.” In the third paragraph, the response provides evidence that “Many 
Islamic ideas would spread and many people and societies would convert to Islam, also adopting its 
practices” supporting the argument that “The Silk Road would heavily influence cultural diffusion.”  
D. Analysis and Reasoning (0–2 points): 1  
The response earned 1 point for historical reasoning in the second paragraph. The response 
discusses how “The Indian Ocean trade helped facilitate trade between sea and land based 
empires.” The response also explained how the Silk Road merchants would introduce new religions 
and “societies would convert to Islam” in the third paragraph.  
The response did not earn the point for demonstrating complex understanding. While the response 
included multiple pieces of evidence, they were not in support of a nuanced or complex argument.  
Sample: 2C 
Thesis Score: 1  
Contextualization Score: 0  
Evidence Score: 1  
Analysis and Reasoning Score: 0  
Total Score: 2  
A. Thesis/Claim (0–1 points): 1 
The response earned 1 point for thesis/claim. The response makes a historically defensible claim in 
the second sentence stating, “The silk road, Indian Ocean, and the tran-Sahra trade help spread 
religion and culture.”  
 
  

===== PAGE 18 =====
AP® World History: Modern 2024 Scoring Commentary 
Long Essay Question 2 (continued) 
B. Contextualization (0–1 points): 0 
The response did not earn the point for contextualization. The response attempts to provide context 
in the first sentence by restating parts of the prompt.  
C. Evidence (0–2 points): 1 
The response earned 1 point for evidence. The response provides three pieces of accurate evidence 
relevant to networks of exchange and/or culture in Afro-Eurasia (“silk road focused on selling luxury 
goods like silk, spices, and gold” / “Indian Ocean merchants learned to use the moonson wind to 
travel” / “The Indian Ocean focused on ... luxury goods.”)   
The response did not earn the point for evidence to support an argument relating to networks of 
exchange contributing to social and/or cultural change from 1200 to 1750.  
D. Analysis and Reasoning (0–2 points): 0 
The response did not earn the point for historical reasoning. The response discusses the use of 
monsoon winds by merchants to travel in the last three sentences but does not explain the effect of 
how this more efficient method of travel resulted in social or cultural change.  
The response did not earn the point for demonstrating complex understanding. There was no 
attempt to demonstrate a complex understanding of how imperial rule over ethnically or religiously 
diverse populations led to political or social change.  
 
 
© 2024 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 